Cost-Efficient-Blockchain-framework-for-Trustworthy-IOT-Software-Updates
Overview:
This project presents a lightweight, secure, and cost-effective blockchain-based framework tailored for IoT ecosystems. It addresses the critical challenge of delivering authenticated software updates to resource-constrained devices without relying on centralized authorities. By integrating smart contracts, IPFS, and cryptographic hashing, the framework ensures:

Tamper-proof update validation
Decentralized firmware distribution
Scalable performance across thousands of devices Ideal for smart cities, industrial IoT, and edge computing environments where trust and efficiency are paramount.
Core Features
Blockchain-backed update verification via smart contracts
IPFS-based decentralized firmware storage
Lightweight cryptographic hashing for IoT compatibility
Secure update delivery with rollback protection
Cost-efficient consensus using Proof-of-Authority (PoA)
Tech Stack
Layer	Tools & Frameworks
Backend	Python (Flask, Web3.py), CMD scripting
Smart Contracts	Solidity, Ganache, MetaMask
Storage	IPFS
Visualization	Seaborn, Matplotlib
Project Structure
├── backend/ │ ├── app.py # Flask API for update requests │ ├── blockchain.py # Smart contract interaction │ └── utils.py # Cryptographic utilities ├── contracts/ │ └── UpdateVerifier.sol # Solidity smart contract ├── ipfs/ │ └── firmware_hashes.json # IPFS hashes of firmware versions ├── scripts/ │ └── deploy_contract.sh # Deployment automation ├── visualizations/ │ └── cost_analysis.png # Cost comparison graphs └── README.md

How It Works
IoT device sends update request to Flask API.
API checks firmware hash stored on IPFS.
Smart contract verifies authenticity and logs the update.
Device downloads verified firmware from IPFS.
Update status is recorded on-chain for auditability.
Results
40% reduction in update delivery cost vs. traditional PKI
99.9% update integrity across testbed simulations
Scalable to 10,000+ devices with minimal latency
Setup Instructions
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Cost-Efficient-Blockchain-IoT-Updates.git cd backend pip install -r requirements.txt python app.py Make sure Ganache is running and MetaMask is connected to the correct test network.

License
MIT License — free to use, modify, and contribute.

Acknowledgments
Built with a passion for secure IoT infrastructure and decentralized systems. Special thanks to open-source communities and blockchain educators for inspiration.

About
No description, website, or topics provided.
Resources
 Readme
 Activity
Stars
 0 stars
Watchers
 0 watching
Forks
 0 forks
Report repository
Releases
No releases published
Packages
No packages published
Contributors
1
KVSIDDARTHA Koneru Venkata Siddartha
Footer
